README.md, before:

# Watson-Node-Red-examples

Collection of examples on how to use the Watson nodes in [Node-RED](http://nodered.org/) (Basic and advanced labs). The basic labs are simple standalone examples of how to call each individual Watson Node-RED nodes and the advanced labs are where different Watson Node-RED nodes are combined to create more complex applications.

To use these nodes you first have to set up your environment.
The information on [this page](/introduction_to_node_red/README.md) will get you started in a few minutes. It helps you with:

- setting up your environment
- build your first 'Hello World' flow
- additional information on the non-Watson Nodes you use in the labs

Some nodes in Node-RED make use of the same service in Bluemix, like:
- The Language Identification and Language Translation nodes make use of the Language Translation service in Bluemix.  
- The Feature extract and image analysis nodes make use of the Alchemy API service in Bluemix

![NodeRedStarter](images/watson_services_overview.jpg)

You can find different labs in this project:

- [Introduction to Node-RED](/introduction_to_node_red/README.md) (same link as above)
- [Basic Labs using Watson nodes](/basic_examples/README.md) show how to invoke nodes from a simple flow
- [Advanced Labs using multiple Watson nodes](/advanced_examples/README.md) show how to extend or combine where different nodes and services
- [Watson Contribution Nodes](/watson_contribution_nodes/README.md) how to add watson developer cloud contribution nodes to Node-RED

Feel free to use this content, please let us know what you think of it! :bowtie:

## Contributing
You want to contribute to this project by updating or creating new nodes for Watson Developer Cloud API ?
Please follow those intructions on [this page](/CONTRIBUTING.md).

## License

MIT. Full license text is available in [LICENSE](LICENSE).

Commit message:

Update to mention US South region

README.md, after:

# Watson-Node-Red-examples

Collection of examples on how to use the Watson nodes in [Node-RED](http://nodered.org/) (Basic and advanced labs). The basic labs are simple standalone examples of how to call each individual Watson Node-RED nodes and the advanced labs are where different Watson Node-RED nodes are combined to create more complex applications.

To use these nodes you first have to set up your environment.
The information on [this page](/introduction_to_node_red/README.md) will get you started in a few minutes. It helps you with:

- setting up your environment
- build your first 'Hello World' flow
- additional information on the non-Watson Nodes you use in the labs

Some nodes in Node-RED make use of the same service in Bluemix, like:
- The Language Identification and Language Translation nodes make use of the Language Translation service in Bluemix.  
- The Feature extract and image analysis nodes make use of the Alchemy API service in Bluemix

You can find different labs in this project:

- [Introduction to Node-RED](/introduction_to_node_red/README.md) (same link as above)
- [Basic Labs using Watson nodes](/basic_examples/README.md) show how to invoke nodes from a simple flow
- [Advanced Labs using multiple Watson nodes](/advanced_examples/README.md) show how to extend or combine where different nodes and services
- [Watson Contribution Nodes](/watson_contribution_nodes/README.md) how to add watson developer cloud contribution nodes to Node-RED

Feel free to use this content, please let us know what you think of it! :bowtie:
## Region
All the labs have been tested against the US South region but have not been fully tested against any other region - please use the US South region unless otherwise informed (by an update to this page).

## Contributing
You want to contribute to this project by updating or creating new nodes for Watson Developer Cloud API ?
Please follow those intructions on [this page](/CONTRIBUTING.md).

## License

MIT. Full license text is available in [LICENSE](LICENSE).
