watson_contribution_nodes/README.md, before:

# Installing Watson Developer Cloud Contribution Nodes 

## Node-RED Bluemix Boilerplate
We are working with the distributers of the Node-RED boilerplate on Bluemix to incorporate the Watson service nodes from the 
Watson Developer Cloud. In the meantime follow these instructions to install node-RED nodes that offer a richer set of 
Watson capabilities.  

## Overview
A more complete set of Watson services nodes are available from the Watson Developer Cloud. If you wish to use these nodes
you will need to modify Node-RED dependencies. These instructions show how to install these contribution nodes into 
your Node-RED instance on Bluemix. Alternatively you can deploy from 
the [node red bluemix starter repository](https://github.com/watson-developer-cloud/node-red-bluemix-starter), which 
brings in these nodes, along with box and dropbox nodes that the sample flows make use of to feed data into the Watson nodes. 

## Modify Node-RED Dependencies.
On the Bluemix console, select your Node-RED application. At the top right you will see an "ADD GIT" button.

![Add GIT Option](images/contribution-add-git.png)

Click on this button. This will create a GIT repository for your Node-RED instance. Once the repository has been created, the
"ADD GIT" button will be replaced with an "Edit Code" button. 

![Edit Code Option](images/contribution-edit-code.png)

Click on the Edit button. The file that you will be changing is "package.json". 

![Package json file](images/contribution-package-json-file.png)

Select the file. 

![Package json file before changes](images/contribution-package-json-file.before.png)

Replace the line for node-red-node-watson with a line pointing at the git home for 
the contribution nodes from Watson Developer Cloud. Add the npm modules for the dropbox and box nodes. 

![Package json file after changes](images/contribution-package-json-file.after.png)

The change is 

```
	 "node-red-node-watson":"https://github.com/watson-developer-cloud/node-red-node-watson.git",
          
	 "node-red-node-dropbox":"0.x",
	 "node-red-node-box":"0.x"	 
	 
```

Remember the comma separators at the end of each line except for the last. Save your changes

![Package json save changes](images/contribution-package-json-file-save.png)

Deploy your changes

![Deploy changes](images/contribution-deploy.png)

Wait for Node-RED to restart

![Node RED application running](images/contribution-running.png)

The updated nodes will then be available for you to use on the palette.

Commit message:

Updated instructions on how to incorporate pre-release functionality

watson_contribution_nodes/README.md, after:

# Installing Watson Developer Cloud Contribution Nodes 

## Node-RED Bluemix Boilerplate
The Watson nodes in the node-red-node-watson project in the watson-developer-cloud repo are the Watson nodes that are
included with the Node-RED boilerplate on Bluemix.  

## Overview
There will be times when we are working on updates that the project will
contain updates that we haven't yet published to npm. If you wish to try out these updates before we publish, then 
you will need to modify Node-RED dependencies. These instructions show how to install these pre-release changes into 
your Node-RED instance on Bluemix. Alternatively you can deploy from 
the [node red bluemix starter repository](https://github.com/watson-developer-cloud/node-red-bluemix-starter), which 
brings in these nodes, along with box and dropbox nodes that the sample flows make use of to feed data into the Watson nodes. 

## Modify Node-RED Dependencies.
On the Bluemix console, select your Node-RED application. At the top right you will see an "ADD GIT" button.

![Add GIT Option](images/contribution-add-git.png)

Click on this button. This will create a GIT repository for your Node-RED instance. Once the repository has been created, the
"ADD GIT" button will be replaced with an "Edit Code" button. 

![Edit Code Option](images/contribution-edit-code.png)

Click on the Edit button. The file that you will be changing is "package.json". 

![Package json file](images/contribution-package-json-file.png)

Select the file. 

![Package json file before changes](images/contribution-package-json-file.before.png)

Replace the line for node-red-node-watson with a line pointing at the git home for 
the contribution nodes from Watson Developer Cloud. Add the npm modules for the dropbox and box nodes. 

![Package json file after changes](images/contribution-package-json-file.after.png)

The change is 

```
	 "node-red-node-watson":"https://github.com/watson-developer-cloud/node-red-node-watson.git",
          
	 "node-red-node-dropbox":"0.x",
	 "node-red-node-box":"0.x"	 
	 
```

Remember the comma separators at the end of each line except for the last. Save your changes

![Package json save changes](images/contribution-package-json-file-save.png)

Deploy your changes

![Deploy changes](images/contribution-deploy.png)

Wait for Node-RED to restart

![Node RED application running](images/contribution-running.png)

The updated nodes will then be available for you to use on the palette.
