advanced_examples/README.md, before:

# Watson Node-RED advanced labs

In this part of the project you can find the advanced labs. In these labs different services are combined to build apps to show the possibilities of Watson in Node-RED.

NOTE: All the labs listed below assume that you have first created an Application from the Bluemix Node-RED Starter Boilerplate - see [here](/introduction_to_node_red/README.md) how to do that.

Before trying these labs you should already be comfortable with Node-RED flows and how to import flows. if not then
please [click here, read and understand the process](/introduction_to_node_red/README.md) on how to import flows.

- [Alchemy API Image analysis](alchemy_image_analysis_thumbs/README.md)
- [Image to speech with Alchemy](alchemy_image_to_speech/README.md)
- [Create a table from Alchemy feature extract](alchemy_output_table/README.md)
- [Use a widget with Trade off Analytics](tradeoff_analytics_widget/README.md)
- [Classsify webcasts (in progress, not completed yet)](webcast_classifier/README.md)

Commit message:

Started example for how to train visual recognition

advanced_examples/README.md, after:

# Watson Node-RED advanced labs

In this part of the project you can find the advanced labs. In these labs different services are combined to build apps to show the possibilities of Watson in Node-RED.

NOTE: All the labs listed below assume that you have first created an Application from the Bluemix Node-RED Starter Boilerplate - see [here](/introduction_to_node_red/README.md) how to do that.

Before trying these labs you should already be comfortable with Node-RED flows and how to import flows. if not then
please [click here, read and understand the process](/introduction_to_node_red/README.md) on how to import flows.

- [Alchemy API Image analysis](alchemy_image_analysis_thumbs/README.md)
- [Image to speech with Alchemy](alchemy_image_to_speech/README.md)
- [Create a table from Alchemy feature extract](alchemy_output_table/README.md)
- [Use a widget with Trade off Analytics](tradeoff_analytics_widget/README.md)
- [Train the Visual Recognition service with your own images](visual_recognition_training/README.md)
- [Classsify webcasts (in progress, not completed yet)](webcast_classifier/README.md)
