basic_examples/README.md, before:

# Watson Node-RED services labs

In this section, Watson services are highlighted. The labs will show you how you can use the services in Node-RED.

NOTE : All the labs listed below assume that you have first created an Application from the Bluemix Node-RED Starter Boilerplate - see [here](../introduction_to_node_red/README.md) how to do that.

In the list below, you can select different services and see how these can be implemented in Node-RED

- [Language Identification](language_identification/README.md)
- [Language Translation](language_translation/README.md)
- [Personality insights](personality_insights/README.md)
- [Speech to Text](speech_to_text/README.md) Only available on local Node_RED instance
- [Text to Speech](text_to_speech/README.md)
- [Tradeoff Analytics](tradeoff_analytics/README.md)
- [Visual Recognition](visual_recognition/README.md)
- [Alchemy Vision](alchemy_api_image_analysis/README.md)
- [Alchemy Feature Extraction](alchemy_api_feature_extraction/README.md)
- [Natural Language Classifier](natural_language_classifier/README.md) 
- [Relationship Extraction](relationship_extraction/README.md)

If you want to combine the different services, you can go [here](../advanced_examples/README.md).

Commit message:

Started description on how to use Watson services in node-RED

basic_examples/README.md, after:

# Watson Node-RED services labs

In this section, Watson services are highlighted. The labs will show you how you can use the services in Node-RED.
The labs will require that you have instances of the Watson services you need. For instructions on how to instantiate
and use the Watson services inside Node-RED follow this link.

- [Using Watson Servcies](using_watson_services/README.md)

NOTE : All the labs listed below assume that you have first created an Application from the Bluemix Node-RED Starter Boilerplate - see [here](../introduction_to_node_red/README.md) how to do that.

In the list below, you can select different services and see how these can be implemented in Node-RED

- [Language Identification](language_identification/README.md)
- [Language Translation](language_translation/README.md)
- [Personality insights](personality_insights/README.md)
- [Speech to Text](speech_to_text/README.md) Only available on local Node_RED instance
- [Text to Speech](text_to_speech/README.md)
- [Tradeoff Analytics](tradeoff_analytics/README.md)
- [Visual Recognition](visual_recognition/README.md)
- [Alchemy Vision](alchemy_api_image_analysis/README.md)
- [Alchemy Feature Extraction](alchemy_api_feature_extraction/README.md)
- [Natural Language Classifier](natural_language_classifier/README.md) 
- [Relationship Extraction](relationship_extraction/README.md)

If you want to combine the different services, you can go [here](../advanced_examples/README.md).
